elastic/README.md, before:

# Elastic (ELK) Logging stack

This is a very simple setup for an Elastic based logging stack, which I used to evaluate the resource usage of an idle cluster.

Note, since this disables xpack security and https/ssl, uses hardcoded passwords along with the fact that it's a single-node cluster you probably should avoid using it for anything, anything really.

It consists of the following containers
- ElasticSearch 8.6.1
- Kibana 8.6.1
- Filebeat 8.6.1
- `mingrammer/flog` to generate some logs

## Usage

To start the cluster run the following.

```sh
docker compose up
```

And after a minute or so everything should be up and running, and you should be able to open the kibana log window and see the logs generated by flog appear there.

```sh
open localhost:5601/app/logs/stream
```

## Resources

The output of running `docker stats` on a machine with 32gb of ram an an ElasticSeach heap size of `512m` as lower sizes caused it to exit due to OutOfMemoryError.

```
NAME                      CPU %     MEM USAGE
elastic-filebeat-1        0.14%     91.38MiB
elastic-kibana-1          0.68%     384.3MiB
elastic-elasticsearch-1   1.91%     1.303GiB
elastic-flog-1            0.02%     4.844MiB
```

Commit message:

Add monitoring, test setup, readme files

elastic/README.md, after:

# Elastic (ELK) Logging stack

This is a very simple setup for an Elastic based logging stack, which I used to evaluate the resource usage of an idle cluster.

Note, since this disables xpack security and https/ssl, uses hardcoded passwords along with the fact that it's a single-node cluster you probably should avoid using it for anything, anything really.

It consists of the following containers
- ElasticSearch 8.6.1
- Kibana 8.6.1
- Filebeat 8.6.1
- `mingrammer/flog` to generate some logs

## Usage

To start the cluster run the following.

```sh
docker compose up
```

And after a minute or so everything should be up and running, and you should be able to open the kibana log window and see the logs generated by flog appear there.

```sh
open localhost:5601/app/logs/stream
```

## Resources
To test the resource usage I started the monitoring stack in `../monitoring`, then ran the `run-test.sh` script. The ElasticSearch instance is configured with a heap  size of `512m` as lower sizes caused it to exit due to OutOfMemoryError.

![Elastic Memory Usage](elastic-memory.png)
![Elastic CPU Usage](elastic-cpu.png)
